---
layout: post
title: "korean green tea"
date: 2016-08-01
thumb: http://seoultravelservice.com/editor/uploaded/img/1294964377.jpg
---
This will be a relatively long post.

My mom recently gave me Korean green tea, and told me it's a good quality green tea that I shouldn't waste. That sparked my curiosity about Korean green tea, and decided to start reading about them. The more I read about Korean green tea, the more I realized how tightly it's connected to Korean history.

The earliest official record of green tea in Korea reads that an Emperor of Tang (present China) gave tea plants to one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea in early 800s. Tea quickly became popular that in one Kingdom, there was a specailized royal office that overlooked tea (and alcohol and medicine) used for various ceremonies. It's amazing that tea was put in the same category as tea and alcohol.

In Goryeo, the kingdom that came after the Three Kingdoms, Buddhism was chosen as the national religion. Tea culture was considered one of the meditation methods, and so Buddhist monks dedicated much time studying, growing, and supplying tea. In some regions where tea plants grew well, tea was even collected as a form of tax.

By the end of Goryeo era, Buddhism was very corrupt, kind of like how the churches were corrupt in the medievals in Europe. The country stopped thriving, and so a group of activists decided to form a new kingdom, called Joseon. Old Joseon, in fact, was the first kingdom in Korea thousands and thousands of years ago. The reason these activists used the same name was to remind people of the good country there used to be in the Korean soil. This is interesting to me because we still see people longing the older concepts, generations, and ideas, i.e. the Paleo diet ("things were better in the cave men days!").

Anyway, as a way to start fresh, Joseon promotes Confucianism, and persecutes Buddhism. As a result, the Buddhist monks didn't have the time or money to tend the tea plants. The bureacrats and the royals picked green tea culture as their hobby for a bit. Making Korean green tea is a laborous process (there are 4 harvest seasons, and at least six ways to process it), so I can see how that could be fun. But soon green tea loses its popualarity as it was considered a luxury, and Confucianism encouraged modesty and frugality.

As a result of Confusianism which considered learning a very high priority, many good things happened in Korea, such as the invention of *han-gul 한글* the Korean characters, lots of science, and art! Some bad things (in my opinion) also happened, including women losing much of their rights; the mother in a family had a lower status than her toddler son, for example.

But then by mid-Joseon in 1500s, buddhist monks who were struggling with the kingdom's persecutions but keeping their culture, and bureaucrats start interacting with each other to exchange knowledge. So the green tea culture makes a come back!

The green tea culture faces a huge change yet again as Japan colonizes Korea in the early 1900s. As food becomes scarce, tea farm owners stop tending the tea plants to cultivate food. Meanwhile, Japanese made an attempt to create huge tea farms in Korea to supply tea to Japan. However, it doesn't appear they succeeded.

After Japan surrendered after the World War II, Korean land owners get their farms back, and start cultivating tea plants again. And that's how I got to taste the Korean green tea.

The type I had is called *sejak 세작*, which literally means sparrow's tongue. Apparently new tea leaves as small as a sparrow's tongue are hand picked in late spring to create this blend. Interesting facts!


<small>photo credit: http://seoultravelservice.com</small>
